# boxtopaba
Scripts for entering and processing basketball box scores

The scripts in this repository were used during the processing of ABA box scores but could be modified to work with basketball games in general. Every box score in ABA league history, from 1967-68 through 1975-76, was digitized using these scripts. The results of this work are posted at http://michaelhamel.net/boxtop-aba/ but the raw data was also provided to Pro Basketball Reference in 2015 (http://www.sports-reference.com/blog/2015/03/aba-box-scores-splits-added/) and 2016 (http://www.sports-reference.com/blog/2016/02/find-every-box-score-in-aba-history/).

These scripts are no longer in use by me, and are not being maintained or updated, but I am posting them on GitHub in case they can be useful for someone.

All of these scripts were run using Perl 5.10.1 as obtained from ActiveState years ago.

ababoxtop.pl - Input games and save them in the Boxtop basketball format

BoxtopInfo.htm - Explanation of the Boxtop basketball file format

abacrosscheck.pl - Script to check a Boxtop file for inconsistencies, including cross-checks of season totals vs. totals from all entered box scores.

ababox2html.pl - Create HTML pages, one per month, containing box scores and a calendar of links

ababox2html_singlepage.pl - Older version of ababox2html.pl that created one HTML page per season

ababgames.pl - Create game logs for all players and coaches

abagamelog.pl - Create game log for a specific player or coach

abateamsplits.pl - Create team reports that include complete season statistics and statistics (splits) against each opponent.

abacleancsv.pl - Boxtop files can be loaded into Excel because they are .csv files, and it can be convenient to edit them as .csv files because Excel will display the data by columns. But Excel likes to add quotes and extra commas when you save the file. This script will clean up these changes, restoring the file so it is compatible with the HTML and game log scripts.

boxtop.pm - Some generic utilities, but also a list of team names/abbreviations that is ABA-specific

The examples folder contains a player stats file (extracted from Pro Basketball Reference, and used as an input to ababoxtop.pl), a Boxtop file containing box score data for 1975-76, and some sample output files generated by the above scripts.

The releases folder contains the last few releases of the .csv files, covering the entire league's history. These .zip files are/were posted on http://michaelhamel.net/boxtop-aba/


Notes on versions

Version 3.1 (5/23/2017) added FGA, REB, AST, PF, and 3FGA for many Virginia Squires games from 1972-73 through 1975-76. This includes data from the Newport News (Virginia) Daily Press.

Version 3.0 (11/6/2016) added FGA, REB, AST, PF, and 3FGA for many Indiana Pacers, Kentucky Colonels, San Antonio Spurs, and Spirits of St. Louis games from 1974-75 through 1975-76. A few Utah Stars games have also been enhanced. This includes data from the Indianapolis Star, The (Louisville, Kentucky) Courier-Journal, the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, the Salt Lake Tribune, and the San Antonio Express-News.

Beginning with this version, some changes have been made to the web pages. Most of the changes are cosmetic, but there is one major difference: the box score pages have been split into index pages and one page per month for each season. I made this change because the old pages were growing so large that they were taking a long time to load. The links above will take you to the index page for each season; then just click on the day or the game to see the box score.

Version 2.7 (9/24/2016) added FGA, REB, AST, PF, and 3FGA for many Indiana Pacers and Kentucky Colonels games from 1972-73 through 1973-74. A few Utah Stars and San Antonio Spurs games have also been enhanced. This includes data from the Indianapolis Star, The (Louisville, Kentucky) Courier-Journal, the Salt Lake Tribune, and the San Antonio Express-News.

Version 2.6 (9/3/2016) added FGA, REB, AST, PF, and even 3FGA for many Indiana Pacers, Kentucky Colonels, and Pittsburgh Condors games from 1970-71 through 1971-72. This includes data from the Indianapolis Star, The (Louisville, Kentucky) Courier-Journal, and the Pittsburgh Press/Post-Gazette. It also includes additional information from the Los Angeles Times for many Los Angeles Stars home games in 1968-69 and 1969-70. (Please see note below about FGA issues in the Times.)

Version 2.5 (7/31/2016) added FGA, REB, AST, PF, and even 3FGA for many Indiana Pacers, Kentucky Colonels, and Pittsburgh Pipers games from 1967-68 through 1969-70. This includes data from the Indianapolis Star, The (Louisville, Kentucky) Courier-Journal, and the Pittsburgh Press/Post-Gazette. Thanks to Sean Burrell for pointing me at the Star and Courier-Journal newspapers as sources for complete, or almost complete, box scores for their local teams.

Version 2.4 (6/18/2016) added data obtained courtesy of the NBAStats.net web site. Merging in data from their ABA game logs has allowed me to fix some inconsistencies in the box scores, and has enabled me to add FGA, REB, AST, and PF statistics for several games. There’s still more work to do to build complete box scores for every game, but this has accelerated that process.

Note on the data included here

This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License. To view a copy of this license, visit # http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/ or send a letter to Creative Commons, 171 Second Street, Suite 300, San Francisco, California, 94105, USA.

If you use this data, please include the following statement:

The information used here was obtained free of charge from and is copyrighted by the Basketball BOXTOP Project.

This data is presented AS IS, with no guarantee of accuracy. Interested parties may contact “michael {dot} hamel {at} gmail {dot} com” for more information or if they wish to help improve the quality or scope of the data.

BOXTOP format

The BOXTOP format is loosely based on Retrosheet’s “Box Score Event Files” (BSEF) format, which is essentially a comma-separated file (.csv) format. More details are included here.

General Comments

1. The primary source for these box scores is The Sporting News, which included box scores for all ABA games except for the 1967-68 season. These box scores should be considered unofficial, and there are some errors and inconsistencies noted on the pages within this site. The most accurate information in these box scores are the basic statistics (e.g. FGM, FTM, PTS) which are available from multiple sources; the least accurate data are statistics available from fewer sources or even a single source (e.g. 3FGA, REB, Blocks). The New York Times was used heavily, especially for the 1967-68 season, and Google News was valuable for copies of the Miami News, Pittsburgh Press, and Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. The Newspapers.com site includes back issues of the Indianapolis Star, The (Louisville, Kentucky) Courier-Journal, Los Angeles Times, Newport News (Virginia) Daily Press, St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Salt Lake Tribune, and the San Antonio Express-News.

2. Technical Fouls are incomplete, but are included for those box scores where available.

3. Known issues and inconsistencies for individual games are listed on the Statistics pages for each season. For cases where a specific statistic, such as rebounds, is only available for some of the players in a particular game, this is noted as “REB incomplete” to distinguish this from a case where rebounds are unavailable for ALL of the players in the game.

4. Statistics from ABA playoff tiebreakers were not included in official regular season totals or playoffs totals. The BOXTOP policy for these games is to include them in the playoffs section of the player game logs and splits, but to EXCLUDE them from the team and player statistics on the statistics pages.

5. The Los Angeles Times and the Pittsburgh papers frequently omitted 3-point FG’s from their FGM-FGA statistics. In some cases the Times listed only 2 point FG’s in the FGM column, but listed the sum of 2 point and 3 point attempts in the FGA column. I have fixed as many of these problems as possible, but this is a work in progress. I have added notes to the .csv files in cases where I know that the FGA figures did not include 3 pointers. In general, please assume that the FGA figures for Los Angeles Stars home games are questionable except in cases where I was able to include specific figures in the 3FGA column (the 3FGA data came from other sources). The Pittsburgh box scores are in much better shape and can generally be assumed to be correct.

Contributors

Tod Maher, John Grasso, the staff at Basketball-Reference.com, and others who contributed via the APBR.org site.
NBAStats.net whose game logs filled in several gaps in my research.

Sources, References, Useful Sites

The Sporting News (TSN archive available on Paper of Record, accessed via SABR.org)
Basketball-Reference.com
RememberTheABA.com
APBR.org
ShrpSports.com
NBAStats.net
